GLOBAL VILLAGE STORIES – A relational art project
Description:
128 very short stories in English language (at most 4 lines) were exhibited in the gallery space in
The Art Folk High School, Holbæk, Denmark. They were framed in 20 A4 frames, that is
around 6-7 stories per frame. 
They have been collected using the Internet in the period February-April 2009. They are coming
from more than 50 different countries. Some contributors have sent more than one story. Some
were too long then I have shortened; others were not in English language then I have to translate
them.
In this note I present my theoretical reflections about this dynamic and relational art project and
how it will evolve in time. 
Global Village:
Today, the term Global Village is mostly used as a metaphor to describe the Internet and World
Wide Web. On the Internet, physical distance is even less of a hindrance to the real-time
communicative activities of people, and therefore social spheres are greatly expanded by the
openness of the web and the ease at which people can search for online communities and
interact with others that share the same interests and concerns. Therefore, this technology fosters
the idea of a conglomerate yet unified global community. Due to the enhanced speed of
communication online and the ability of people to read about, spread, and react to global news
very rapidly, this forces us to become more involved with one another from countries around the
world and be more aware of our global responsibilities. Similarly, web-connected computers
enable people to link their web sites together. This new reality has implications for forming new
sociological structures within the context of culture.
This art project involves the Internet, permitting social communication and participation about a
theme (stories) that exists in any culture as well as in the Global Village. In all cultures and in
all times story telling has been a central activity. Stories or narratives have been shared in every
culture and in every land as a means of entertainment, education, preservation of culture and in
order to instill moral values. Crucial elements of stories and storytelling include plot and
characters, as well as the narrative point of view.
Stories as readymades:
The readymades as conceptualized by Marcel Duchamp are ordinary manufactured objects that
he selected and modified, as an antidote to what he called "retinal art". By simply choosing the
object (or objects) and repositioning or joining, and tilting and signing it, the object became art.
It was the least amount of interaction between artist and art, and the most extreme form of
minimalism that had yet been seen at the time.
Duchamp was unable to define or explain his opinion of readymades: "The curious thing about
the readymade is that I've never been able to arrive at a definition or explanation that fully
satisfies me.” Duchamp was not interested in what he called "retinal art" — art that was only
visual — and sought other methods of expression. As an antidote to "retinal art" he began
creating readymades at a time (1915) when the term was commonly used in the United States to
describe manufactured items to distinguish them from handmade goods. He selected the pieces
on the basis of "visual indifference” and the selections reflect his sense of irony, humour and
ambiguity."...it was always the idea that came first, not the visual example", he said, "...a form
of denying the possibility of defining art." 
In this sense, the collected stories are to me readymades, they are ordinary “objects”, they are
not necessarily work of art, most of them are not, but they will become part of an art project. I
do not evaluate them; I have not dismissed any story. Many of them are “modified” readymades
in the sense that some were too long and I have to reduce them or some of them were send in a
language that was not English and I have to translate them. What is important in this project is
the story, the date and the country where the story is coming from. The person sending the story
or the author of the story is in principle irrelevant and according to the rules of the Internet most
of them are anonymous. Moreover, recently some people have preferred to remain anonymous.
Relational Art - the process and the product:
Some visitors of the gallery, looking for traditional art, searching for “sublime” paintings or
sculptures, probably looking for investment objects, have difficulties in understanding this art
project. They will usually ask: Is this art? What is the price?
To better understand this project, it is necessary to introduce the concept of Relational Art.
According to Nicolas Bourriaud, Relational Art encompasses a set of artistic practices which
take as their theoretical and practical point of departure the whole of human relations and their
social context, rather than an independent and private space.
The artwork creates a social environment in which people come together to participate in a
shared activity. The role of artworks is no longer to form imaginary and utopian realities, but to
actually be ways of living and models of action within the existing real, whatever scale chosen
by the artist.
In Relational Art, the audience is envisaged as a community. Rather than the artwork being an
encounter between a viewer and an object, relational art produces encounters.
Through these encounters, meaning is elaborated collectively, rather than in the space of
individual consumption. Participation is an essential element of Relational Art.
In this specific project, the artist has used the Internet to create a space where people could send
very short stories, in this way everybody could participate, no censorship; the only demand was
that the stories should be of at most four lines. The important parts were the story, the date and
the country of origin. Some people were refused participation because they wanted to appear in
the project with their name, e-mail and Web site. The authors or story creators are anonymous.
This was the beginning of a process, the interaction of the creator of the project and the
contributors of stories. Some stories were modified, corrected, make shorter or translated to
English language. This was a very fast process, after two months more than 100 stories have
been collected.
This process ends when the creator was invited to an exhibition in Denmark, he presented five
installations, and one of them was the exhibition of the first 128 stories. The products of this
process were framed and shown around the gallery. In the exhibition another participative
element was introduced: The visitors were invited to contribute with their own stories that will
be included the next time the stories will be shown in another exhibition.
